# Nor

_Für A._

It was the Summer and, in the morning, she felt lost. In the morning, she asked
herself why she came back, why she came back every year. She knew why; she came
back as a dutiful daughter should. She was not the good daughter. Nor was the
good daughter, the one who stayed. Nor lived nearby with Peter. Nor always had
a man; she never had them from very long, but she always had one. Peter was
nice, from around here too. He was a bland man with a bland name, but he
treated Nor well.

As to their brother, he had always had it easier, as boys do (especially when
they are their mother's only male child). Even when he had failed out of
school, even when he had spent most of his 20s almost-in-jail, even when now
(at the age of forty-seven) he still lived off his mother's allowance as the
washed-out ageing adolescent he was; even through all of this, in their
mother's eyes, he could do no wrong. And, then, a few years ago, he had bested
them all by bringing children into the family. He was not a particularly
dedicated father (and since the children's mother had asked him to leave, he
only saw them every-other-weekend), but he had given their mother the only
grand-children she had, Beni and Lana.

She was in the kitchen, using the delightfully antiquated mokka machine to make
coffee when her mother came in (where had she gone?). "Oh, you're finally up!"
the mother exclaimed, even though it was not yet eight, but old women do not
sleep. "Leonore is coming to pick me up around ten" — their mother always
used the full name, Leonore, refusing the diminutive, Nor, that everyone else
used. "We're going to the beach, you should come. Your brother said he might
stop by."

She put on her bathing suit at home (no way would she change at the beach,
juggling towels to preserve privacy). There was a mirror in the room and it did
not flatter her. She was not past the point of caring (is one ever past the
point of caring about how one looks?), but she was old enough that it would not
influence her actions. She wanted to go bathing and she would (but she should
really go back to the gym, find a new personal trainer...).

Nor was her usual loud self, talking non-stop during the drive down to the
beach, only occasionally letting her or their mother give an opinion. "Is that
one of yours?" Nor piped at an intersection, pointing to a vending machine.
"No, that's the competition," she answered, attempting nonchalance and
jolliness. She did not want Nor to go into it, to call her the "Queen of the
Vending Machines" in that way that families use to tease each other, playfully
and without mercy. Out there, in her professional life, she was not a Queen,
but she was a respected senior executive in the European vending machine
industry. People knew her name, knew of deals she had made, of technologies she
had adapted from Asia into European markets. None of that mattered here.

She had not been there when their father died. She had made it back for the
funeral, but had not been at his deathbed. It had all been too sudden. She was
in Paris as they would ever-so-often remind her. Here they still think that
Paris is fancy and charming and not a tourist trap filled with poverty and the
smell of urine. And she was not even in Paris, she was in a business hotel,
near the airport. Hotel rooms and conference rooms are all the same everywhere,
and they are neither fancy nor charming.

Her mother and Nor went to the beach to go to the cafés and the restaurants at
the shore. She alone went into the water, like the out-of-towners do. She
enjoys the cold ocean, the physically of the waves, the smell of the ocean.
There, she forgets herself in memories of their childhood here (back then Nor
would also go into the ocean).

Her brother did not meet them at the beach. He had unexpectedly needed to go
pick up the children and wanted to bring them over for dinner. Of course, the
women would do the work of cooking and cleaning for his children.

She chopped shallots (did they have shallots here when she was growing up?),
she peeled carrots, and watched over the stove. It was nice to perform these
simple manual tasks. Normally, she never cooked. Other people cooked for her.
She lived so much of her life in hotels and restaurants that when she found
herself back at her apartment, she had an empty fridge and resorted to take-out
and delivery. Brigitte used to cook for her too (for them). But Brigitte had
left eight years ago and, since then, she had not had anyone else in her life.
At the end of their relationship, she and Brigitte had become barely more than
cordial roommates, sharing a bed but no intimacy. So Brigitte's departure was
just that: one day, she was no longer there.

Now, in the kitchen, she was cooking with her sister and her mother and it felt
good to contribute, to play a part without have to lead anything. Nor made them
laugh with her impressions of Peter, saying "steak and fries, that's what I
like" in his voice, exaggerating for effect his indignation at any suggestion
he try new foods. While they were still cooking, the children burst in.

Beni was the attention-seeker, the one who through dinner told of his
playground exploits, the one who liked spicy foods and prided himself on not
ordering from the children's menu at restaurants. Lana was the subdued one, but
she was smarter and had a competitive streak that came out when they played
cards. After dinner, they had drinks on the patio. The children had water with
lime and mint, while the grownups had gin gimlets. Beni told his surfing
lessons, but she appreciated the most the quiet conversation she had with Lana
about galaxies; Lana, at the age of nine, was teaching her about space (did you
know that the centre of the galaxy smells of raspberries?). She enjoyed
learning about this and she enjoyed Lana's enthusiasm. She felt grateful to her
brother for bringing them the children.

In a week, she would leave. She would go back to her real life, the one full of
virtuality (hotels, conference rooms and conference calls, meetings with
strangers who respected her). In October, she was going to Paris and New York.
In November, she would spend a week in Shanghai. She would not mention any of
this here, fearing Nor's taunts (which were sure to come playfully, but without
mercy). But all these trips would happen later in the year. Now, it was
the Summer and, in the evening, she felt at home.


